# Appie

Appie is a simple static generator for dynamic websites. Dynamic websites? Yes! Although Appie can generate HTML files its focus is on providing all information of files residing in your website's directory. As a HTML file can not see what's available on your website Appie will provide a JSON file containing exactly this. From this the HTML file, using javascript, can figure things out. By matching to certain filenames the JSON file can be filled with specific data. For example a file with the .textile extension is parsed into HTML. Same holds for files ending with a .md extension.

Just point Appie to a directory and it will provide you with a JSON file with all of its 
contents and a static directory with all static files.

Files generated by Appie can be served on very simple webhosting servers. No PHP or other webserver modules are needed! It is also possible to host on github.io for example (Don't forget the .nojekyll file)

Appie parses files thourgh extensions. Extensions are very easy to 
write. If a file or directory is not matched to an extension it will be 
copied to the target build directory.

## Installation

Just use Pip:

    pip install https://github.com/sphaero/appie/archive/master.zip

*Appie is developed for Python3! It might work on Python2 but please stop using Python2!*

## Extensions

The following extensions are available:

- \_\*: any file starting with an \_ will be loaded into the json
- \*.textile: html text entry in the resulting json file
- \*.png: converted to a thumbnail jpg (filename_thumb.jpg) and a jpg with a fixed dimension (filename.jpg)

Some non default extensions:

- \_rd\_\*: directories starting with _rd_ will be parsed into an academic 
style paper

## Example

For example we have the following directory contents:

    ./files
    ./files/report_2008.pdf
    ./files/report_2009.pdf
    ./files/report_2010.pdf
    about.textile
    home.textile
    ./img/banner.png
    
Appie is run as follows:

    $ appie -s /path/to/directory

You will then have a new directory 'build' in your current direcyory with the following contents:

    ./build/files/report_2008.pdf
    ./build/files/report_2009.pdf
    ./build/files/report_2010.pdf
    ./build/img/banner_thumb.jpg
    ./build/img/banner.jpg
    ./build/img/banner.png
    ./build/all.json
    
The file 'all.json' will contain:

    { "home.textile" : "<h3>Test</h3><p>This is just a test</p>",
      "about.textile" : "<h3>About</h3><p>What about it</p>",
      "files": {"report2010.pdf": "/files", "report2009.pdf": "/files", "report2008.pdf": "/files"}
      "img" : { "banner.png": { "thumb" : "banner_thumb.jpg", "web": "banner.jpg" }}
    }
    
## Built-in webserver

For your development convenience Appie can also serve from the build directory. If you run appie with the -w flag it will serve the generated files through a HTTP server. By default this HTTP server runs on port 8000.

    $ appie -s /path/to/directory -w
    Serving on port 8000...     press CTRL-C to quit
    

## About ##

Appie originated at the [z25 Foundation](http://www.z25.org) where it is used to manage the main website. All content of the website is automatically updated through the subversion repositories of z25's projects by Appie. Appie is also used in production for [sphaero.org](http://www.sphaero.org) 
